i get out here on the internet and ask
people every day
to do the right thing just because it's
the right thing to do
and what people say back to me is it's
hard
as the saying goes one day you're here
and the next day you're gone just a few
days ago
i came on camera and recorded a video
with two takes
unusually talking about the real
life consequences of eating cholesterol
the only reason that video wasn't
uploaded
was that we had a number of funny
technical problems lighting and the
camera and
for completely banal reasons that video
didn't get uploaded
then just a few days later
i find out that someone i know in real
life
face to face is going through exactly
one of these
calamitous life altering possibly
life-ending health problems caused by
cholesterol in the diet and yes this is
someone
i have talked to about the gospel of
veganism
on this channel most of the time
i do not make pragmatic
health-based arguments for why you or
why
anyone should be vegan because i think
you got to do the right thing just
because it's the right thing to do
and cholesterol is an especially
slippery case there is a legitimate
problem with making it sound like plants
are the absolute answer to
everything could you possibly need
statins and
even if you're on a plant-based diet yes
in fact i may need a statin my
latest ldl is up uh my cardiac heart
scan looks great but i've got a familial
hypercholesterolemia
and i'm very comfortable with the fact
that the data shows that i would be
better off on
a statin even though i follow about a
healthy diet as a human being can follow
genetically some people are born
to have cholesterol problems no matter
how healthy their diet is even though it
is incredibly rare
a small number of vegans will have high
levels of cholesterol
not because of their diet but because
their body
is producing excessively high levels of
cholesterol
and they will end up taking statins and
other drugs
to treat their high cholesterol levels
nevertheless for those people
it's still helpful it's still beneficial
that they have a vegan diet
rather than eating bacon eggs but guess
what at the opposite end
of the genetic spectrum i've known one
person like this in real life who got
tested and
knew was aware of this fact there are
people who can eat a non-vegan diet who
can eat huge quantities of cholesterol
and their body will cope with it
incredibly well like their dietary
cholesterol can be high but their
serum cholesterol the problem with
blockages in the arteries won't emerge
in any case so so you could say that
life is not fair
but to say that would mean that you
think it's desirable or wonderful
to eat a high cholesterol diet i don't
if you think oh
some people get to eat pork every day
without any negative consequences
well that's not my perspective right
like my perspective is if you eat pork
there are negative consequences for the
pig there are negative consequences for
the planet you know if you eat beef if
you eat chicken if you eat fish
no more what it is milk cheese
all these things contain cholesterol i'm
interested
in doing the right thing because the
right thing to do and i want you in the
audience to be addressing that as well
if you took the opposite pragmatic
approach
what if you had one friend who was in
the position of having
hypercholesterolemia where no matter
what he or she eats
he's going to have high cholesterol
maybe he would say look
he might as well eat cheese and
animal products he's going to have the
problem he's going to take the drugs
anyway and at the opposite stream what
if you knew someone who was actually
diagnosed as having the opposite
rare genetic condition where they can
eat
high amounts of cholesterol with
impunity or immunity without
suffering those negative concepts you
say oh it's okay it's okay for them what
if
what if in dissecting a cow
or dissecting some exotic fish we
managed to find one particular cut of
meat
one day what if scientists discover
there's one particular part of the cow
one particular part of the arctic char
that has no cholesterol
what if there's some animal product you
can eat without raising your cholesterol
levels
what if the scientifically developed
cholesterol-free cheese or some
processed part of this cholesterol-free
beef jerky
in the future it's about so what then
what you don't think
either you think veganism is for
everyone everywhere all the time
or you don't so i i primarily you know
deal with things
however you know a few days ago
i saw that my fellow youtuber tko sam
was boasting that he'd lost 45 pounds i
think it was
he could lose another 100 pounds he's
got a lot of weight
to lose and he's done this before he's
lost
weight and then he's gained it back he
even briefly
went on a vegan diet once lost all the
way for that
reason he went back to eating at
mcdonald's every day
you know we gained the dope back he's
not a close personal friend of mine but
he's just somebody
i know someone has spoken to a little
bit over the internet of the years i
know that he was close friends with this
guy laoshu
55 000 another youtuber
laoshu who has now suddenly died of a
heart attack of heart disease
after many years earlier having an
ischemic
stroke
when you have problems with the
circulation of blood
in your body right when you have
coronary
artery disease when you have
atherosclerosis
all right it's not just in any one
part of your body subjectively you may
experience
erectile dysfunction as a man because of
blockages in the circulation of blood
to that part of your body you may
experience a heart attack because the
blockage of flow around
that part of the body cardiovascular
disease is a disease of the whole heart
of all the vessels in the body in other
words
people with erectile dysfunction have a
problem
with their vessels and they can have
a higher rate of heart disease because
it is a systemic problem
whether you're aware of it or not
whether you want to admit it to yourself
or not
if you have these high cholesterol
levels you are going to be experiencing
impaired brain function long before you
get to the tipping point of having a
diagnosis for something like alzheimer's
disease
because the distribution of blood in
your brain
the veins and arteries involved in that
are
incredibly fine they're incredibly easy
for a high cholesterol diet to impair as
opposed to the large
sturdy veins and arteries that are right
around your
your beating heart and the most
dangerous
facet of all is that doctors
tell you don't worry about it your
cholesterol is within
the normal range at a landlord
years ago and he could have lost a
hundred pounds
and still not been thin you know what i
mean he was more than 150 pounds
overweight um
[Music]
and i remember several times we talked
about the vegan diet we talked about
what was going on in my life and so on
and um he said to me that he had no
worries
and he had no concerns about cholesterol
at all because his doctor
told him he was within the normal range
guess what having a heart attack
at 55 is normal having
cognitive decline at 75
is normal having dementia what's called
mixed dementia now technically you know
dementia caused by the reduced and
improper
distribution of blood in your own brain
sometimes
resulting in a sudden calamitous event
where you have tissue damage in the
brain
cell death that shows up on an mri scan
sometimes not right
having sub-optimal mental performance in
your 70s
is normal what the medical profession
treats as normal is not
optimal and people are lulled into
a false sense of security by going to
the doctor and being told again again
don't worry about it you're within the
normal range
now here's the other problem
what's normal is not what you
and your body can tolerate because on
that genetic spectrum
of how well people cope with cholesterol
on their diet
as mentioned some people it's going to
be a problem no matter what their
ability to cope is
limited or their body is even over
producing regardless of their diet
all the way over the opposite extreme
people are incredibly gifted at coping
with cholesterol for diet
most of us are somewhere on the spectrum
in between
okay you don't know where you are
on that spectrum and what's considered
normal or what's considered average
in the united states of america or in
england in any of these meat and dairy
intensive
western cultures for you
that could be deadly for you normal
might not just be sub-optimal okay it
might be a death sentence
and you might not get a warning okay you
might not get called into the hospital
with a minor heart attack needing minor
surgery
okay you might not get to the hospital
at all
you might just drop dead
i have nowhere to go with this i mean
i get out here on the internet and ask
people every day
to do the right thing just because it's
the right thing to do
and what people say back to me is it's
hard
what do you what do you want to do about
myanmar right now what do you want to do
about the country
formerly known as burma this is april
8th
2021. you want to bring democracy
to burma that's hard
what do you want to do about the border
between the united states and mexico
well i don't i don't know any youtubers
who are even driving down to the border
to have a look and frankly i'd like to
call you out for both cowardice and
laziness
jacqueline glenn what are you doing with
your life they're all these imbeciles
who like to front on politics shoe on
head
come on you can you can take an uber
most of these people are in the los
angeles area you could get to the
mexican border in no time at all
you could be reporting on this you could
start a charity you could ask for a
gofundme
you could set up a vegan taco stand
giving free food to refugees for all
your
you could get involved you could at
least learn from looking at the problem
you could
at least alleviate your own ignorance
instead of morally grandstanding here
whether it's about syria or it's about
myanmar or it's about
latin america you could you could do
things you can you can do things
to change the world to help the world
and become
a little bit less ignorant a little bit
more enlightened yourself okay
that's hard that's hard
okay people want to tell me
all the time that the challenge
of going to the grocery store and
looking at the boxes
of ice cream bars and saying oh no
i'm not going to buy the ice cream bar
made out of cow milk
i'm gonna buy the one made out of soy
milk you know
like people are telling me
that is hard and that it's
hard for them to do because
fundamentally
they don't give a [ __ ]
about morality they don't give a damn
about questions of right and wrong
when it's on them to make the decision
when it's on them
to make the choice as opposed to
complaining about
donald trump complaining about joe biden
complaining about the federal budget
when it's actually
all up to you to make this difference to
make this change
and then when we shift from this world
of ethics
to this world of pragmatics and health
then i'm going to ask the same question
say okay you think it's hard
you think it's hard well could you do it
if your life
depended on it
because ironically or not sometimes it's
people who are distant and far removed
from the internet
sometimes there's people i know face to
face okay
i'm now 42 years old so i know people in
their 50s and their 60s
all right if you're in your 20s watching
this yeah the people you went through
high school with
maybe these health problems aren't that
visible yet just you
wait just you wait as the decades go by
all right suddenly it starts to shift
from are you willing
to the right thing is the right thing to
do or are you willing to make this a
priority
are you willing to lift a finger and try
when for you here and now it starts to
become a question
of life and death
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice
yes